# Daily Journal - Monday, August 11th, 2025

**Focus Areas**: Python, HTB Academy

---

## HTB

**Penetration Tester Path Section:**

- Module: Network Enumeration With Nmap - Complete
  - A strong grasp of key techniques for network enumeration using Nmap
  - Host discovery, port scanning, service enumeration, and operating system detection
  - Working with saved Nmap scan results
  - Evading network defenses to obtain accurate scanning results

> This module covered the ever-important network enumeration and scanning tool, Nmap. We covered basic tool usage, working with scan results, extending the tool with the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE), and evasion tactics. Finally, we completed various practical challenges and a skills assessment to reinforce the various topics introduced throughout the module.

- Model: Footprining
  - Started module

> Our goal is not to get at the systems but to find all the ways to get there.

## Python

**ATBS:**

- Chapter: 13
- Pages: 310–318
  - Project 7
  - Project 8

>The requests and bs4 modules are great as long as you can figure out
the URL you need to pass to requests.get(). However, this URL isn’t always
so easy to find. Or perhaps the website you want your program to navigate
requires you to log in first. Selenium will give your programs the power to
perform such sophisticated tasks.

**Scripts:**

- PyPi search script: `search_pypi.py`
- XKCD comics download script - `xkcd_comics.py`

## Tools / Resource(s) Used

- `python`, `nmap`, `nc`
- [Beautiful Soup - Python module](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)

## Notes

Finding the right data stores to parse from webpage search results and page data to grab the proper parsable results. This was good in a way that helped me with practice for penetration testing web applications. And also for watching for scripts with the capabilities to perform DOS/DDOS.

Finished off the enumeration module. It ended with 3 challenges: easy, medium, and hard. The first 2 were ok to complete; however, the hard challenge I need to get some help with, the hint provided was pretty bleak. However, from searching, I discovered the filtered service on port tcp50000 and grabbed the flag with nc.

Well, I kept scanning that box after the fact and found the port with nmap, without setting off the IPS:

```
$ sudo nmap -sC -sSV $htb -p- -source-port 53 -min-rate 300
Starting Nmap 7.95 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-08-11 18:01 CDT
Nmap scan report for $htb
Host is up (0.048s latency).
Not shown: 64562 closed tcp ports (reset), 970 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE SERVICE    VERSION
22/tcp    open  ssh        OpenSSH 7.6p1 Ubuntu 4ubuntu0.7 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
| ssh-hostkey:
|   2048 71:c1:89:90:7f:fd:4f:60:e0:54:f3:85:e6:35:6c:2b (RSA)
|   256 e1:8e:53:18:42:af:2a:de:c0:12:1e:2e:54:06:4f:70 (ECDSA)
|_  256 1a:cc:ac:d4:94:5c:d6:1d:71:e7:39:de:14:27:3c:3c (ED25519)
80/tcp    open  http       Apache httpd 2.4.29 ((Ubuntu))
|_http-title: Apache2 Ubuntu Default Page: It works
|_http-server-header: Apache/2.4.29 (Ubuntu)
50000/tcp open  tcpwrapped
|_drda-info: TIMEOUT
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 52.82 seconds
```
