# Daily Journal - Friday, August 15th, 2025

**Focus Areas**: Python, HTB Academy

---

## HTB Academy

**Challenges:**

- Challenges and module labs can be found in module [notes.md](../../../../htb-academy/footprinting/notes.md)

**Penetration Tester Pathway:**

- Module: Footprinting - ***Complete***
  - SNMP
  - MySQL
  - MSSQL
  - IPMI

- Module Key Takeaways:
  - Enumeration principles
  - Infrastructure-based enumeration
  - Host-based enumeration
  - Manual enumeration, footprinting, and interaction techniques with the most important services that we encounter during our assessments

>This module covered many manual techniques that we can use for manual enumeration, footprinting, and interaction with a wide variety of services.

## Python

**ATBS:**

I think I pulled all I can from Automate the boring stuff and need to move on. One of the best beginner programming resources in my personal opinion. It's been 3 years since I did any work with C# and knew nothing about the Python language so it was an excellent resource. After chapter 13 I felt it was time to move onto something more aligned with what I wanted to do with python. Al has a ton of free resource, and he's an exceptional author and teacher, but, I think I'll be reading Black Hat Python going forward.

## Challenges Faced

Oh wow, remember to connect your VPN, fuck.

## Tools / Resource(s) Used

- `onesixtyone`, `braa`, `snmpwalk`, `openssl`, `mysql`, `mssqlclient`
- `msfconsole`, `sqlplus`, `odat`, `xfreedp`, `ssh`, `nfs`
- 
  
## Notes

This module was heavy with information and challenging labs. Most of the challenges were small boxes in on themselves. As for the labs, I found the Medium lab to be far more challenging than the Hard lab. Mind you I'm not the greatest or experienced with Windows side of penetration testing so that played a part and that is exactly why I'm here doing this. Learn, grow and get better. All in all, a very good module.
